Star Wars Episodes 7,8 and 9: What We Want to See

There isn't a movie that could possibly be released anytime within the next decade that could excite me more than the upcoming Star Wars Episode 7. The next Avenger flick will be cool, as will the next Spiderman movie, as will the next couple Hobbit films (hopefully). But Star Wars is the pinnacle of motion picture franchises, and remains the greatest movie saga in existence despite half the series being an absolute disaster. (I seriously do not like the Prequel trilogy at all. I can't remember the last time I watched any of them. If I had my way, the first thing Disney would do with the Star Wars brand is hire the guy from "belatedmedia" and have him completely re-write and re-shoot the Prequels.) While I think most of us can agree that the Prequel movies were basically a disaster, I hold out hope that this next trilogy will reinvigorate every fan's love of Star Wars.  As a lifelong Star Wars fanboy, there was always a part of me that felt Return of the Jedi wasn't really the end of the Star Wars cinematic story. We now know that there is still more to tell. Here's what we want to see.

Unlike the Prequel movies, where we at least knew that somewhere in the story we'd see Anakin Skywalker as a Jedi, and we'd probably learn about the "Clone Wars" that Leia mentions in 4, we have no idea what will happen in the next trilogy. For years, people have been pointing to various books across the Expanded Universe and said "here's the story for 7, 8 and 9", but we now know that the Expanded Universe is not really being used by the writers of the next trilogy, rather the new movies will be an "Original Story". Which makes the actual story anyone's guess. A lot of people think the logical story would depict the creation of the New Republic and the restoration of the Jedi Order.  While this makes sense, is it really what we want to see? Short answer, no. Is it what we will see? Again, no.

I'm currently projecting the time gap between episodes 6 and 7 to be about 30 years, give or take a few. A different things could be happening in this in between time. The most logical possible timeline, while looking at the Expanded Universe, is that the New Republic and Jedi Order are quickly put into place, and this New Republic and Jedi Order proceed to stamp out the remnants of the Empire and fight a bunch of crazy alien invaders from another galaxy. But, as we know, the use of Expanded Universe material is not guaranteed, which means we could be looking at an incredibly different story. Maybe the Empire quickly reorganized under a new figure head and forced the main heroes into exile. Maybe Starkiller actually survived the events of the Force Unleashed games, and after hiding in exile during the events of 4,5 and 6, saw his chance to take power and became the figure head of the new Empire. Maybe Palpatine was really the puppet of a greater evil that who's power will fully manifest in the next trilogy. 

I admit that none of my ideas have a realistic chance of making it into 7, 8, and 9, but I am pretty certain we won't see three movies consisting of Princess Leia and Mon Mothma diplomatically trying to promote galactic peace while Luke is skipping around the Jedi Temple with a  bunch of Jedi younglings. Even if the New Republic and New Jedi Order were featured in the new movies, the movies won't be about how they were formed. While the New Republic wouldn't take shape as quickly as the Empire did, I'm thinking it could easily have at least a somewhat solid framework in place 30 years after the death of the Emperor. The re-establishment of the Jedi Order would take a little longer, but I think is the Jedi Order will be present at al in the new movies, it will be featured from the beginning as pretty well fleshed out Jedi presence. 

So if the movies are not primarily about the Jedi Order and New Republic, what will they be about? Well, as I said earlier, it's really anyone's guess. However, there are a few essential things the films needs to give us the Star Wars feel we crave. 

First, the next trilogy needs a defined villain. The worst part of the Prequel trilogy is that they killed of Darth Maul way too early. No character can really have that iconic bad guy persona that Darth Vader had, but Darth Maul was about as close as you could get. The next trilogy needs that bad guy that the good guys know and interact with, but takes 3 movies to actually eliminate. I know that you can't just recreate Darth Vader, but you need some bad guy that is even more evil and sinister than Vader or the Emperor were, but still have that personal connection that Vader did to the main protagonists. Whatever the case, given the fact that the first 6 films dealt with big time bad guys with big time power, the next films have to somehow keep this up without rehashing the old films.

Second, whoever or what ever the bad guy is, it has to have enough power to keep the good guys consistently on their toes. Glancing back at 4, 5, and 6, the Empire was always hot on the Rebels' heels,  nowhere was safe for long. The Empire landed stormtroopers on or planned to blow up every planet featured except Dagobah, and this constant pursuit made these movies great. If the next trilogy is going to recapture the greatness of old, the story has to feature a bunch of daring escapes from bad guys that can pop up anywhere at anytime. 

Third, whoever the good guys are, they have to be a ragtag team of vastly different people with different strengths, weaknesses, experiences and morals, but with a common enemy. We want scoundrels and scruffy nerfherders just as much as we want wookiees and jedi. I'm not confident that the Han, Leia and Luke will be the main characters in the next movies, but whoever they are, I want them to have the same general characteristics that these three had. We know that a few movies centered around a couple of Jedi, a moralistic young queen, a dorky kid and a gungun won't be as much fun as it sounds, but a few movies centered around a dorky kid turned jedi hero, a princess with an edge, a cocky smuggler turned cocky hero, a wookiee and a paranoid droid will be fun to watch.  

As for what I don't want to see, there are a lot of things I could go on and on about. But I won't right now. Instead, here are a few more quick tips that I think could strengthen the films:

Put the focus on acting over special effects.
Keep the underworld aspect of the galaxy active in the story.
Establish humorous banter within the dialogue, but don't go overboard.
Mix new locations with old.
Remember it is Star "WARS" not Star "Aggressive Negotiations" or Star "Lightsaber Duels" or Star "Prance amongst the meadow people"
And last but not least, keep the fan service to a minimum.

OK, I've actually decided to list a bunch of things I don't want to see, because what I don't want to see is just as important, if not more so, than what I want to see. Here are my don'ts for the next trilogy:

Don't goof around at all with the opening crawl or opening sequence.
Don't talk about midi-chlorians.
Don't go back to or reference in any way anything about Naboo, (no gunguns).
Don't bring back old characters as clones.
Don't include any fuzzy characters that are not Wookiees. No Ewoks.
Don't include any references to the Clone Wars series. No Asoka.
Don't include anything Disney related at all anywhere outside of the end credits.

I could go on, but it's about time to wrap things up.

If J.J. Abrams, Kathleen Kennedy, and Lawrence Kasdan keep in mind what made Star Wars the greatest picture to grace the silver screen, then the movies will exceed even the most die hard fan's expectations. I don't see any reason not to be excited about the next Star Wars trilogy. Star Wars has endured beyond the mess that was episodes 1, 2, and 3, and there is no reason to believe that the problems that made those movies what they are will be repeated with the next trilogy. With J.J. Abrams in and Lucas out, I have a new hope that the best days of Star Wars may be ahead of us, and the upcoming return of the Jedi to the big screen will define this generation of movie making. 
